---
title: "04014"
slug: "04014"
description: NG04014 - Invalid configuration of route
author: Nelson Gutierrez
authorTwitter: nelsongutidev
date: Oct 3, 2023
---

# NG04014

`NG04014` is a runtime error that indicates there is an invalid configuration of the routes. It is aliased as `INVALID_ROUTE_CONFIG` in the `ErrorCode` enum.

## Error Information Examples

```text
Error NG04014: Invalid configuration of route 'your-route': One of the following must be provided: component, loadComponent, redirectTo, children or loadChildren.

Error NG04014: Invalid configuration of route 'your-route': redirectTo and canActivate cannot be used together. Redirects happen before activation so canActivate will never be executed
```

## Potential Causes and Solutions

### 1. Malformed Route Configuration

**Cause**: This error may occur if a route configuration is undefined or contains syntax errors.

**Solution**: Carefully review the route configuration for the specified path ('${your route}') and ensure it is correctly defined with the required properties. Check for missing or extra commas.

### 2. Incompatible Route Configuration

**Cause**: This error can also be triggered if certain properties within the route configuration are incompatible with each other. Make sure the following route properties are used correctly and there is no conflict between them:

**Conflict Between `redirectTo` and `children`**:

- Error: "redirectTo" and "children" cannot be used together in a route configuration.
- Explanation: When a route has a "redirectTo" property, it should not also have "children" specified.

Error example:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    redirectTo: "bar",
    children: [
      {
        path: "bar",
        component: BarComponent,
      },
    ],
  },
];
```

**Conflict Between `redirectTo` and `loadChildren`**:

- Error: "redirectTo" and "loadChildren" cannot be used together in a route configuration.
- Explanation: When a route redirects to another route using "redirectTo," it should not simultaneously use "loadChildren."

Error example:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    redirectTo: "bar",
    loadChildren: () => import("./bar/bar.module").then((m) => m.BarModule),
  },
];
```

**Conflict Between `children` and `loadChildren`**:

- Error: "children" and "loadChildren" cannot be used together in a route configuration.
- Explanation: If a route has child routes defined using "children," it should not include "loadChildren" for lazy loading.

Error example:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    children: [
      {
        path: "bar",
        component: BarComponent,
      },
    ],
    loadChildren: () => import("./bar/bar.module").then((m) => m.BarModule),
  },
];
```

**Conflict Between `redirectTo` and (`component` or `loadComponent`)**:

- Error: "redirectTo" and either "component" or "loadComponent" cannot be used together.
- Explanation: When a route redirects to another route using "redirectTo," it should not specify a component directly using "component" or "loadComponent."

Error example:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    redirectTo: "bar",
    component: BarComponent,
  },
];
```

**Conflict Between `component` and `loadComponent`**:

- Error: "component" and "loadComponent" cannot be used together in a route configuration.
- Explanation: A route should either specify a component using "component" or use lazy loading with "loadComponent," but not both.

Error example:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    component: FooComponent,
    loadComponent: () => import("./bar/bar.component").then((m) => m.BarComponent),
  },
];
```

**Conflict Between `redirectTo` and `canActivate`**:

- Error: "redirectTo" and "canActivate" cannot be used together.
- Explanation: When a route redirects using "redirectTo," it should not include the "canActivate" guard because redirects occur before route activation.

> > This is particularly common in migrations from ng13 to ng14 because of improved validation. One community workaround for this is to remove `redirect` and do that in the `canActivate` guard instead. You will also need to add an empty `children: []` property.

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: "foo",
    component: FooComponent,
    canActivate: [RedirectGuard],
    children: [],
  },
];
```

### 3. Missing Required Properties

**Cause**: This error can occur when a route configuration is missing essential properties such as `component`, `loadComponent`, `redirectTo`, `children`, or `loadChildren`.

**Solution**: Ensure that each route configuration provides at least one of the following: `component`, `loadComponent`, `redirectTo`, `children`, or `loadChildren`. Additionally, set the required properties according to your application's routing logic.

Resources:

- https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/router/src/utils/config.ts
- https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/13373
- https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/46325
